CLAP 1.2.0 (#371)
free-audio/clap: conventions/extension-id.md

# Extension ID

## Naming

The extension shall be named in the form: `clap.$NAME/$REV`.
Where:
- `$NAME` is the name of the exension.
- `$REV` is the revision of the extension. This is an integer that is incremented for each iteration.

For extensions made by third-parties and not officially published by the CLAP project, please use the following form: `$REVERSE_URI.$NAME/$REV`.
Where:
- `$REVERSE_URI` would be something like `com.bitwig`.

## Draft

An extension is considered a draft extension if it is in the [draft](../include/clap/ext/draft/) folder.

When the extension is migrating from draft to stable, its extension ID must not change.

> All extensions must go first though a draft phase.

Reviewer: is the grammar correct here? i it should be "All extensions must go though the draft phase first."

Author: Thanks, I've applied your suggestions.

## For factory ID

> Everything about the extension id simetrically applies to factory id.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Everything about the extension id symmetrically applies to factory id.
```
typo

## History

> Before this document was written, existing extension didn't honor those rules.
> Some stable extension include the string `draft` in their ID.
> We decided to keep those in order to maintain the binary compatibility.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before this document was written, existing extensions didn't honor these rules.
Some stable extensions include the string `draft` in their ID.
We decided to keep those in order to maintain binary compatibility.
```
wording improvement
